---
aliases: S/Key
---

**S/KEY** is a *one-time password system* developed for authentication to Unix-like operating systems, especially from dumb terminals or untrusted public computers on which one does not want to type a long-term password. A user's real password is combined in an offline device with a short set of characters and a decrementing counter to form a single-use password. Because *each password is only used once*, they are useless to password sniffers.

See also: [[OTP]]

### Password generation 

The *server* is the computer that will perform the authentication.

1.  This step begins with a secret key *$W$*. This secret can either be provided by the user, or can be generated by a computer. Either way, if this secret is disclosed, then the security of S/KEY is compromised.
2.  A [[Kryptographische Hash-Funktionen|cryptographic hash function]] of *$n$* one-time passwords. The passwords are the results of the application of the cryptographic hash function:
$$H(W), H(H(W)), ..., H^n(W)$$
3.  The initial secret $W$ is discarded.
4.  The user is provided with the *$n$* passwords, printed out in reverse order:
$$H^n(W), H^{n−1}(W), ..., H(H(W)), H(W)$$
5. The passwords $H(W), H(H(W)), ..., H^{n−1}(W)$ are discarded from the server. Only the password $H^n(W)$, the one at the top of the user's list, is stored on the server.

### Authentication
After password generation, the user has a sheet of paper with _$n$_ passwords on it. If _$n$_ is very large, either storing all _$n$_ passwords or calculate the given password from $H(W)$ become inefficient.

*More ideally*, though perhaps less commonly in practice, the user may carry a small, portable, secure, non-networked computing device capable of regenerating any needed password given the secret passphrase, the salt, and the number of iterations of the hash required, the latter two of which are conveniently provided by the server requesting authentication for login.

In any case, *the first password will be the same password that the server has stored*. This first password will not be used for authentication (the user should scratch this password on the sheet of paper), the second one will be used instead:

- The user provides the server with the second password `pwd` on the list and scratches that password.
- The server attempts to compute $H$(`pwd`), where `pwd` is the password supplied. If $H$(`pwd`) produces the first password (the one the server has stored), then the authentication is successful. The server will then store `pwd` as the current reference.

For subsequent authentications, the user will provide *password*$_i$. (The last password on the printed list, *password*$_n$, is the first password generated by the server, $H(W)$, where $W$ is the initial secret). The server will compute $H$(*password*$_i$) and will compare the result to *password*$_{i−1}$, which is stored as reference on the server. 

### Usability 
Internally, S/KEY uses 64-bit numbers. For human usability purposes, each number is mapped to six short words, of one to four characters each, from a publicly accessible 2048-word dictionary. For example, one 64-bit number maps to "ROY HURT SKI FAIL GRIM KNEE".

## Bewertung
Gute Hashfunktionen bieten ausreichend Schutz vor dem Ableiten des n. Passworts aus den vorherigen n-1 Passwörtern

Ohne weitere Schutzmaßnahmen anfällig für Man-in-the-Middle Angriffe 

Benutzer muss Reihenfolge der Passwörter genau einhalten